DOCS-3449 Error Tracking Monitor (#14002)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/monitors/create/types/error_tracking.md

- link: "/monitors/notify/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure your monitor notifications"
- link: "/monitors/notify/downtimes/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Schedule a downtime to mute a monitor"
- link: "/monitors/manage/status/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Check your monitor status"
---

## Overview

Once [Real User Monitoring][1] or [APM][2] is enabled for your organization, you can create an [Error Tracking][3] monitor to alert you when an issue starts, when it has a high impact, and when it starts regressing.

## Create an Error Tracking monitor

To create an Error Tracking monitor in Datadog, navigate to [**Monitors** > **New Monitor** > **Error Tracking**][4].

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: There is a default limit of 1,000 Error Tracking monitors per account. <a href="/help/">Contact Support</a> to lift this limit for your account.</div>

### Select the alerting condition

Alerts are grouped by issue ID and are based on error volume.

Choose **Count** to alert on issues with a high number of errors and **New Issue** to alert on issues that occur for the first time.

### Define the search query

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Count" %}}

> For **Web and Mobile Apps**, select **Count**. As you expand your search filter, the Count graph above **Select the alerting condition** updates.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: You've already chosen "Count" at this point. I think here you should say something like "Choose what kind of app you are alerting on: Web and Mobile Apps or Backend Services."

Author: Yes, for context Backend Services is not available yet for Count.

> 1. Optionally, select a query suggestion such as **Error Occurrences**, **Impacted Users**, and **Impacted Sessions** to alert on. 

Reviewer: The information here is repeated in lines 50-54, where more information is given. I would just delete this, since you tell them to do it later on

> 2. Select **Web and Mobile Apps** or **Backend Services** and choose to monitor over a count, facet, or measure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Choose what metric you want to monitor: a count, facet, or measure.
```

   - For error occurrences, monitor over an overall count based on the issue ID.
   - For impacted users, monitor over a unique count of user emails based on the issue ID or over a measure. 
   - For impacted sessions, monitor over a unique count of session IDs based on the issue ID. 
   - Monitor over a measure. If you select a measure, the monitor alerts over the numerical value of the RUM facet (similar to a metric monitor). Select an aggregation type (`min`, `avg`, `sum`, `median`, `pc75`, `pc90`, `pc95`, `pc98`, `pc99`, or `max`). 
   
   There are three quickfilter options to access the most frequently used facets:

   - **Error Occurrences**: Triggers when the error count is `above` or `above or equal to`.
   - **Impacted Users**: Triggers when the number of impacted user emails is `above` or `above or equal to`.
   - **Impacted Sessions**: Triggers when the number of impacted session IDs is `above` or `above or equal to`.

4. Construct a search query using the same logic as a [RUM Explorer search][1] for the issues’ error occurrences.

> 5. Configure the alerting grouping strategy (optional).
>    - Simple-Alert: Simple alerts aggregate over all reporting sources. You receive one alert when the aggregated value meets the set conditions. If the query has a `group by` and you select **Simple-Alert**, you get one alert when one or multiple groups’ values breach the threshold. You may use this strategy to reduce notification noise.
>    - Multi-Alert: Multiple alerts apply the alert to each source according to your group parameters. An alerting event is generated for each group that meets the set conditions. For example, you can group a query by `@browser.name` to receive a separate alert for each browser when the number of errors is high.

Reviewer: This is already documented in /monitors/create/configuration/#alert-grouping. Let's just point there instead.
```suggestion
5. Optionally, configure the alerting grouping strategy. For more information, see [Monitor Configuration]
```
and point to /monitors/create/configuration/#alert-grouping

> Triggers when the error count is `above` or `above or equal to`. An alert is triggered whenever a metric crosses a threshold.

Reviewer: These sentences seem misplaced, like maybe it belongs in a list above, but is missing some intro words?  The first sentence is definitely missing a subject.

[1]: /real_user_monitoring/explorer/search/
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "New Issue" %}}

> For **Web and Mobile Apps** or **Backend Services**, select **New Issue**. As you expand your search filter, the issue details list above **Select the alerting condition** updates. The list displays older issues that were considered new in historic time frames such as the past 24 hours or the past week. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of new issues might display older issues that are considered new in the selected time frame, such as the past 24 hours or the past week. 
```

1. Select or input a custom time period for the monitor to consider an issue as new after its first occurrence. The selected threshold is evaluated in the given time frame. After the specific time period, the monitor stops alerting and turns green.
2. Select **Web and Mobile Apps** or **Backend Services** and choose to monitor over a count or [measure][1]. 

>    - Monitor over a unique count based on the issue ID. 

Reviewer: This feels like a strange phrasing that I can't quite figure out. Does it mean: "Monitor the count of occurrences for a particular issue ID"?

Author: ```suggestion
   - Monitor the count of occurrences for a specific issue ID. 
```

   - Monitor over a measure. If you select a measure, the monitor alerts over the numerical value of the RUM or APM facet (similar to a metric monitor). Select an aggregation type (`min`, `avg`, `sum`, `median`, `pc75`, `pc90`, `pc95`, `pc98`, `pc99`, or `max`).
3. Construct a search query using the same logic as a [RUM Explorer search][2] or [APM Explorer search][3] for the issues’ error occurrences.
4. Configure the alerting grouping strategy (optional).
   - Simple-Alert: Simple alerts aggregate over all reporting sources. You receive one alert when the aggregated value meets the set conditions. If the query has a `group by` and you select **Simple-Alert**, you get one alert when one or multiple groups’ values breach the threshold. You may use this strategy to reduce notification noise.

>    - Multi-Alert: Multiple alerts apply the alert to each source according to your group parameters. An alerting event is generated for each group that meets the set conditions. For example, you can group a query by `@browser.name` to receive a separate alert for each browser when the number of errors is high.

Reviewer: Same comment as above - link out to the config page

> Triggers when the number of errors is `above` or `above or equal to`. An alert is triggered whenever a metric crosses a threshold.

Reviewer: Same comment as line 61.

- The threshold during the last `5 minutes`, `15 minutes`. `1 hour`, or `custom` to set a value between 5 minutes and 48 hours. 
- Alerting threshold `<NUMBER>`.

> - Warning threshold `<NUMBER>`.

Reviewer: This also seems out of place. What are these things?

Author: This section reflects the Log and RUM Monitor doc pages' Set alert conditions sections (https://docs.datadoghq.com/monitors/create/types/log/).

[1]: /real_user_monitoring/explorer/?tab=measures#setup-facets-measures
[2]: /real_user_monitoring/explorer/search/
[3]: /tracing/trace_explorer/?tab=listview#filtering
{{% /tab %}} 
{{< /tabs >}}

#### Advanced Alert Conditions

For more information about advanced alert options such as evaluation frequency, see [Configure Monitors][5].

### Notifications

To display triggering tags in the notification title, click **Include triggering tags in notification title**.

For more information about the **Notify your team** and **Say what’s happening** sections, see [Notifications][6].

#### Breaching Values Toplist

> When an Error Tracking monitor is triggered, values can be added to the notification message. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an Error Tracking monitor is triggered, the facet or measure values that triggered the alert can be added to the notification message. To display breaching facets and measure values, click **Include a table of the top 10 breaching values**.
```

| Monitor Over     | Can be added to notification message                                                               |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Facet or measure | Grouped: The top 10 facet or measure values.<br>Ungrouped: The top 10 facet or measure values. |

Reviewer: What's the difference between "grouped" and "ungrouped". They both say "The top 10 facet or measure values". Maybe this table can be replaced by another sentence or phrase in line 103?

Author: ```suggestion
```

> This monitor integrates with [platforms][7] such as Slack, Jira, Webhooks, Microsoft Teams, Pagerduty, and email. To display breaching facets and measure values, click **Include a table of the top 10 breaching values**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This monitor integrates with platforms such as Slack, Jira, Webhooks, Microsoft Teams, Pagerduty, and email. For more information, read the [documentation about notification integrations][7].
```

3. Construct a search query using the same logic as a [RUM Explorer search][2] or [APM Explorer search][3] for the issues’ error occurrences.
4. Configure the alerting grouping strategy (optional).
   - Simple-Alert: Simple alerts aggregate over all reporting sources. You receive one alert when the aggregated value meets the set conditions. If the query has a `group by` and you select **Simple-Alert**, you get one alert when one or multiple groups’ values breach the threshold. You may use this strategy to reduce notification noise.
   - Multi-Alert: Multiple alerts apply the alert to each source according to your group parameters. An alerting event is generated for each group that meets the set conditions. For example, you can group a query by `@browser.name` to receive a separate alert for each browser when the number of errors is high.

[1]: /real_user_monitoring/explorer/?tab=measures#setup-facets-measures
[2]: /real_user_monitoring/explorer/search/
[3]: /tracing/trace_explorer/?tab=listview#filtering
{{% /tab %}} 
{{< /tabs >}}

### Set alert conditions

> For **Web and Mobile Apps**, select between **Count** and **New Issue**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> #### Count
> 
> {{< tabs >}}
> {{% tab "Error Occurrences" %}}
> 
> Triggers when the error count is `above` or `above or equal to`.
> 
> {{% /tab %}}
> {{% tab "Impacted Users" %}}
> 
> Triggers when the number of impacted user emails is `above` or `above or equal to`.
> 
> {{% /tab %}}
> {{% tab "Impacted Sessions" %}}
> 
> Triggers when the number of impacted session IDs is `above` or `above or equal to`.
> 
> {{% /tab %}} 
> {{< /tabs >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> #### New Issue
> 
> Triggers when the number of impacted session IDs is `above` or `above or equal to`. An alert is triggered whenever a metric crosses a threshold.
> 
> For **Backend Services**, select **New Issue**.
> 
> #### New Issue
> 
> Triggers when the error count is `above` or `above or equal to`. An alert is triggered whenever a metric crosses a threshold.
> 
> - The threshold during the last `5 minutes`, `15 minutes`. `1 hour`, or `custom` to set a value between 5 minutes and 48 hours. 
> - Alerting threshold `<NUMBER>`.
> - Warning threshold `<NUMBER>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Trigger when the selected facet count or measure is `above` or `above or equal to`
* the threshold during the last `5 minutes`, `15 minutes`, `1 hour`, etc. or `custom` to set a value between 5 minutes and 48 hours.
* Alert threshold: `<NUMBER>`
* Warning threshold: `<NUMBER>`
```

   - Multi-Alert: Multiple alerts apply the alert to each source according to your group parameters. An alerting event is generated for each group that meets the set conditions. For example, you can group a query by `@browser.name` to receive a separate alert for each browser when the number of errors is high.

[1]: /real_user_monitoring/explorer/search/
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "New Issue" %}}

As you expand your search filter, the issue details list above **Select the alerting condition** updates.

1. Select or input a custom time period for an issue to be considered new after its first occurrence.
2. Select **Web and Mobile Apps** or **Backend Services** and choose to monitor over a count or [measure][1]. 
   - Monitor over a unique count based on the issue ID. 
   - Monitor over a measure. If you select a measure, the monitor alerts over the numerical value of the RUM facet (similar to a metric monitor). Select an aggregation type (`min`, `avg`, `sum`, `median`, `pc75`, `pc90`, `pc95`, `pc98`, `pc99`, or `max`).

> 3. Construct a search query using the same logic as a [RUM Explorer search][2] for the issues’ error occurrences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Construct a search query using the same logic as a [RUM Explorer search][2] or [APM Explorer search][3] for the issues’ error occurrences.
```

4. Configure the alerting grouping strategy (optional).
   - Simple-Alert: Simple alerts aggregate over all reporting sources. You receive one alert when the aggregated value meets the set conditions. If the query has a `group by` and you select **Simple-Alert**, you get one alert when one or multiple groups’ values breach the threshold. You may use this strategy to reduce notification noise.
   - Multi-Alert: Multiple alerts apply the alert to each source according to your group parameters. An alerting event is generated for each group that meets the set conditions. For example, you can group a query by `@browser.name` to receive a separate alert for each browser when the number of errors is high.

[1]: /real_user_monitoring/explorer/?tab=measures#setup-facets-measures

> [2]: /real_user_monitoring/explorer/search/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[2]: /real_user_monitoring/explorer/search/
[3]: /tracing/trace_explorer/?tab=listview#filtering
```

{{% /tab %}} 
{{< /tabs >}}

### Set alert conditions

#### Count

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Error Occurrences" %}}

Triggers when the metric is `above` or `above or equal to`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Impacted Users" %}}

Triggers when the number of impacted user emails is `above` or `above or equal to`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Impacted Sessions" %}}

Triggers when the number of impacted session IDs is `above` or `above or equal to`.

{{% /tab %}} 
{{< /tabs >}}

> #### New Issue

Reviewer 2: Add a section about the time period that the issue is considered "new".
`Select time period Consider an issue as new up to x minutes after its very first error occurrence`

e.g.: "The Monitor will consider the issue as new for the selected time-period, after that it will turn back to green and stop alerting"

We should also point out that the selected threshold will only be evaluated in that selected timeframe, maybe with an example?

Reviewer 2: Add a section that explains that the preview shows issue that would have been considered new in the selected bigger timeframe like past 24h or past week.

Author: To your first point about "new" issues, this info already exists in the first New Issue tab!

{{< tabs >}}

> {{% tab "Web and Mobile Apps" %}}

Reviewer 2: "Web and Mobile Apps" vs "Backend Services" is not related to the "New Issue". 

Currently you structure like this:

- Set alert conditions
  -  Count
      - Error Occurences
      - Impacted Users
      - Impacted Sessions
  - New Issue
      - Web and Mobile Apps
      - Backend Services

My proposal:
- Web and Mobile Apps
   - Count
      - Error Occurences
      - Impacted Users
      - Impacted Sessions
   - New Issue
 - Backend Services
     - New Issue
      
  Currently the Count is not available for backend services but this will change.
